README.md, before:

<img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1de0151b-8aa1-4570-b49d-1ffb6c37e13b">

# Guestwise React Technical Assessment

## Technical Test Brief

### Objective

Your task is to develop and enhance a Mock React application designed to help users find a restaurant and book a table.

The application currently displays a static list of restaurants. You need to integrate it with a dynamic data source to load restaurants, display the restaurant details, and handle bookings.

### Current State

- **Static Setup**: The app displays a single static restaurant in the `RestaurantList` component.
- **Mock Server**: `mock-server.json` provides data for restaurants and bookings. This is served via json-server at `/restaurants` and `/bookings`.

### Tasks

1. **Fetch and Display Restaurants**:

   - Use the provided `services/api.ts` to fetch data from the API endpoints (`/restaurants` and `/restaurant/:id`).
   - Populate the `RestaurantList` component with dynamic data.

2. **Restaurant Details**:

   - When a restaurant is selected, display detailed information about it, including opening hours and rating, in the `RestaurantDetails` component.

3. **Booking a Table**:

   - Implement the `BookTable` component to handle booking requests.
   - On form submission, POST the booking data to the `/bookings` endpoint.
   - Ensure the following validation rules:
     - **Date/Time**: Bookings must be scheduled for at least 1 hour in the future and cannot be set for the past.
     - **Guests**: Limit bookings to a maximum of 12 people. Inform users to contact the restaurant directly via email if booking for more than 12.
     - **Form Validation**: Ensure the presence of required fields (name, email, phone), validity of email and phone number, and check for the number of guests.

4. **Search and Sorting**:

   - Implement search functionality to filter the restaurant list.
   - Allow sorting of the restaurant list alphabetically by name or by rating.

5. **Error Handling & UX Optimisation**:

   - Handle cases where the server is not running or responding slowly.
   - Display loading spinners or messages to inform users when requests are in progress or if errors occur.
   - Ensure a responsive and intuitive User Interface with appropriate feedback for user actions.

6. **Performance**:

   - Optimise the app to handle slow network conditions gracefully and ensure smooth UX even on slower connections.

7. **Testing**:
   - Write tests to ensure the functionality of search, sorting, booking, and error handling.

### API Endpoints

- **Get Restaurants**: `GET /restaurants`
- **Get Restaurant Details**: `GET /restaurants/:id`
- **Post Booking**: `POST /bookings`

### Mock Server Setup

1. **Run json-server**:

   - Start json-server to serve `mock-server.json`:

   ```bash
   yarn server
   ```

   - The server will be accessible at [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001).

2. **Endpoints**:
   - **Restaurants**: [http://localhost:3001/restaurants](http://localhost:3001/restaurants)
   - **Bookings**: [http://localhost:3001/bookings](http://localhost:3001/bookings)

### Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn server`

Runs json-server in development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

## Evaluation Process

1. **Functional Requirements**:

   - Correctly fetches and displays dynamic data
   - Handles booking submissions
   - Appropriately handles and adheres to validation for submissions
   - Implements search and sorting

2. **User Experience**:

   - Smooth, responsive user interface
   - Appropriate feedback to user for loading, errors, and network issues.

3. **Code Review**:

   - We will review your code for clarity, structure, and adherence to React best practices.
   - We will also review your tests for coverage and correctness.

4. **Bonus Points**:

   - Regular commits with clear commit messages, demonstrating your thought process and approach.
   - Any additional improvements that enhance the performance or functionality beyond the brief will be appreciated.
   - Future-proofing the application for scalability, resiliance, reliability and maintainability.

5. **Submission**:
   - Once you have completed the task, please commit your changes and push them to a forked repository and share the link with us.
   - We'll then arrange a follow-up call to discuss your solution and answer any questions you may have.

## Good To Know

- The mock-server.json file contains the data for the restaurants and will be served by json-server.
- The mock-server.json will also be populated with booking data when you submit a booking form. You can check the file to see all of your booking data is being submitted and stored.
- We're not looking for a perfect solution, or lots of UI creativity, but we want to see how you approach the problem and your thought process.

Good luck, and happy coding!

Commit message:

chore: Updated readme with notes and future improvements

README.md, after:

<img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1de0151b-8aa1-4570-b49d-1ffb6c37e13b">

# Kim Love notes:

- Git commit messages follow the [Semantic Commit Messages](https://gist.github.com/joshbuchea/6f47e86d2510bce28f8e7f42ae84c716) guidelines.
- Most of the core functionality outlined in this ReadMe is implemented.
- Super barebones UI; I’ve used Bootstrap components where possible with minimal custom CSS.
- No additional npm packages used.
- Ignores cases where there are over 12 guests (i.e. "Please contact the restaurant directly for larger bookings"), but limits guest selection from 1 to 12 using a select menu.
- Booking silently fails if the API service is down

## Future improvements (with time estimation)

- Filter by cuisine type would be nice (1 hour)
- Restaurant images would be nice to have (need image restaurant content + 1-2 hours)
- Currently, the system does not prevent bookings during closed hours or distinguish between weekday/weekend times. Adding this feature could improve user experience. (3-5 hours)
- The vertical list doesn’t scale too well, especially if more restaurants were added. To improve usability, I’d consider splitting the list by cuisine type or location and allowing users to drill down. Would likely require an additional index page. (4 hours)
- The Bootstrap UI is pretty dated. I'd probably replace with Tailwind and a more modern component library https://ui.shadcn.com/ - or look at a bespoke design implementation (4-8 hours... likely longer if bespoke)
- Unit tests are quite basic, so may need to cover more edge cases especially around booking form submission (4 hours)
- Hardcoded text in the current unit test make them quite brittle, reusing API data would be nicer.
- Improved calendar selector where previous dates were unavailable (and could incorporate a better time check if today was selected) (4 hours)
- The app obv. has no awareness of previous bookings. This feature would require a more sophisticated API/backend integration.

---

# Guestwise React Technical Assessment

## Technical Test Brief

### Objective

Your task is to develop and enhance a Mock React application designed to help users find a restaurant and book a table.

The application currently displays a static list of restaurants. You need to integrate it with a dynamic data source to load restaurants, display the restaurant details, and handle bookings.

### Current State

- **Static Setup**: The app displays a single static restaurant in the `RestaurantList` component.
- **Mock Server**: `mock-server.json` provides data for restaurants and bookings. This is served via json-server at `/restaurants` and `/bookings`.

### Tasks

1. **Fetch and Display Restaurants**:

   - Use the provided `services/api.ts` to fetch data from the API endpoints (`/restaurants` and `/restaurant/:id`).
   - Populate the `RestaurantList` component with dynamic data.

2. **Restaurant Details**:

   - When a restaurant is selected, display detailed information about it, including opening hours and rating, in the `RestaurantDetails` component.

3. **Booking a Table**:

   - Implement the `BookTable` component to handle booking requests.
   - On form submission, POST the booking data to the `/bookings` endpoint.
   - Ensure the following validation rules:
     - **Date/Time**: Bookings must be scheduled for at least 1 hour in the future and cannot be set for the past.
     - **Guests**: Limit bookings to a maximum of 12 people. Inform users to contact the restaurant directly via email if booking for more than 12.
     - **Form Validation**: Ensure the presence of required fields (name, email, phone), validity of email and phone number, and check for the number of guests.

4. **Search and Sorting**:

   - Implement search functionality to filter the restaurant list.
   - Allow sorting of the restaurant list alphabetically by name or by rating.

5. **Error Handling & UX Optimisation**:

   - Handle cases where the server is not running or responding slowly.
   - Display loading spinners or messages to inform users when requests are in progress or if errors occur.
   - Ensure a responsive and intuitive User Interface with appropriate feedback for user actions.

6. **Performance**:

   - Optimise the app to handle slow network conditions gracefully and ensure smooth UX even on slower connections.

7. **Testing**:
   - Write tests to ensure the functionality of search, sorting, booking, and error handling.

### API Endpoints

- **Get Restaurants**: `GET /restaurants`
- **Get Restaurant Details**: `GET /restaurants/:id`
- **Post Booking**: `POST /bookings`

### Mock Server Setup

1. **Run json-server**:

   - Start json-server to serve `mock-server.json`:

   ```bash
   yarn server
   ```

   - The server will be accessible at [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001).

2. **Endpoints**:
   - **Restaurants**: [http://localhost:3001/restaurants](http://localhost:3001/restaurants)
   - **Bookings**: [http://localhost:3001/bookings](http://localhost:3001/bookings)

### Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn server`

Runs json-server in development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

## Evaluation Process

1. **Functional Requirements**:

   - Correctly fetches and displays dynamic data
   - Handles booking submissions
   - Appropriately handles and adheres to validation for submissions
   - Implements search and sorting

2. **User Experience**:

   - Smooth, responsive user interface
   - Appropriate feedback to user for loading, errors, and network issues.

3. **Code Review**:

   - We will review your code for clarity, structure, and adherence to React best practices.
   - We will also review your tests for coverage and correctness.

4. **Bonus Points**:

   - Regular commits with clear commit messages, demonstrating your thought process and approach.
   - Any additional improvements that enhance the performance or functionality beyond the brief will be appreciated.
   - Future-proofing the application for scalability, resiliance, reliability and maintainability.

5. **Submission**:
   - Once you have completed the task, please commit your changes and push them to a forked repository and share the link with us.
   - We'll then arrange a follow-up call to discuss your solution and answer any questions you may have.

## Good To Know

- The mock-server.json file contains the data for the restaurants and will be served by json-server.
- The mock-server.json will also be populated with booking data when you submit a booking form. You can check the file to see all of your booking data is being submitted and stored.
- We're not looking for a perfect solution, or lots of UI creativity, but we want to see how you approach the problem and your thought process.

Good luck, and happy coding!
